docs/introduction/prerequisite.md, before:

# Prerequisite

## Are you ready for Jumpstart?

Just as there is a distinction between someone who is learning to play a musical instrument as a hobby and someone who is training to become a professional musician, there is a difference between a hobbyist coder and a professional software developer.

Before applying, you have to ask yourself if you're ready to take on the challenges at Jumpstart.

Due to the fast pace of the program, Jumpstart is not suitable for absolute beginners. We expect you to already be familiar with basic levels of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

Jumpstart is designed for advanced beginners who have some experience in web development. You should have some experience building a simple website in HTML and CSS.

You should also be familiar with basic programming concepts in JavaScript. Use this checklist to see if you have the necessary knowledge of [JavaScript Fundamentals](https://javascript.info/first-steps).

If you are not familiar with these concepts we highly recommend that you first learn them before applying to Jumpstart.

## Personal projects

Having personal projects is the easiest way for us to assess your technical abilities.

At a minimum, we expect you to have a GitHub account with at least one public repository containing a personal project that is built with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. You may optionally host your project on GitHub Pages.

This demonstrates that you are familiar with the fundamentals of web development - HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

## Preparing for Jumpstart

We have curated a list of online learning resources to help you prepare yourself for the Jumpstart program. We recommend that you go through all the learning materials listed on this page to help with your preparation.

### Learn touch typing

Software developers do a lot of typing for their work. Touch typing is when you're typing with all your fingers and without having to look at the keyboard.

We recommend using an online typing tool like [keybr](https://www.keybr.com/) to practice your typing speed.

### Learn HTML fundamentals

Try these online learning resources:

- [HTML Crash Course for Absolute Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UB1O30fR-EE) by Brad Traversy
- [HTML Fundamentals](https://www.sololearn.com/Course/HTML/) by SoloLearn

### Learn CSS fundamentals

Try these online learning resources:

- [CSS Crash Course for Absolute Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yfoY53QXEnI) by Brad Traversy
- [CSS Fundamentals](https://www.sololearn.com/Course/CSS/) by SoloLearn

### Learn JavaScript fundamentals

Try these online learning resources:

- [JavaScript Crash Course for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hdI2bqOjy3c) by Brad Traversy
- [JavaScript Fundamentals](https://www.sololearn.com/Course/JavaScript/) by SoloLearn

### Build a website

After learning the fundamentals of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, you should challenge yourself to build a simple website.

If you're up for the challenge, you can even publish your website for free on [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/).

### Sharpen your skills with code katas

A code kata is a short coding exercise that allows you to practice your understanding of programming concepts.

We recommend you practice on [HackerRank](https://www.hackerrank.com/) and on [Codewars](https://www.codewars.com/).

Commit message:

[elson] Update content to show dev training content
1. Change jumpstart wording to developer training
2. Create outline and about page for developer training

docs/introduction/prerequisite.md, after:

# Prerequisite

## Are you ready for Developer Program?

Just as there is a distinction between someone who is learning to play a musical instrument as a hobby and someone who is training to become a professional musician, there is a difference between a hobbyist coder and a professional software developer.

Before applying, you have to ask yourself if you're ready to take on the challenges at Developer Program.

Due to the fast pace of the program, Developer Program is not suitable for absolute beginners. We expect you to already be familiar with basic levels of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

Developer Program is designed for advanced beginners who have some experience in web development. You should have some experience building a simple website in HTML and CSS.

You should also be familiar with basic programming concepts in JavaScript. Use this checklist to see if you have the necessary knowledge of [JavaScript Fundamentals](https://javascript.info/first-steps).

If you are not familiar with these concepts we highly recommend that you first learn them before applying to Developer Program.

## Personal projects

Having personal projects is the easiest way for us to assess your technical abilities.

At a minimum, we expect you to have a GitHub account with at least one public repository containing a personal project that is built with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. You may optionally host your project on GitHub Pages.

This demonstrates that you are familiar with the fundamentals of web development - HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

## Preparing for Developer Program

We have curated a list of online learning resources to help you prepare yourself for the Developer Program program. We recommend that you go through all the learning materials listed on this page to help with your preparation.

### Learn touch typing

Software developers do a lot of typing for their work. Touch typing is when you're typing with all your fingers and without having to look at the keyboard.

We recommend using an online typing tool like [keybr](https://www.keybr.com/) to practice your typing speed.

### Learn HTML fundamentals

Try these online learning resources:

- [HTML Crash Course for Absolute Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UB1O30fR-EE) by Brad Traversy
- [HTML Fundamentals](https://www.sololearn.com/Course/HTML/) by SoloLearn

### Learn CSS fundamentals

Try these online learning resources:

- [CSS Crash Course for Absolute Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yfoY53QXEnI) by Brad Traversy
- [CSS Fundamentals](https://www.sololearn.com/Course/CSS/) by SoloLearn

### Learn JavaScript fundamentals

Try these online learning resources:

- [JavaScript Crash Course for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hdI2bqOjy3c) by Brad Traversy
- [JavaScript Fundamentals](https://www.sololearn.com/Course/JavaScript/) by SoloLearn

### Build a website

After learning the fundamentals of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, you should challenge yourself to build a simple website.

If you're up for the challenge, you can even publish your website for free on [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/).

### Sharpen your skills with code katas

A code kata is a short coding exercise that allows you to practice your understanding of programming concepts.

We recommend you practice on [HackerRank](https://www.hackerrank.com/) and on [Codewars](https://www.codewars.com/).
